[ADD] Biteship as a delivery provider (#14854)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/shipping_receiving/setup_configuration/biteship_shipping.rst

=================
Biteship shipping
=================

Biteship is a shipping service aggregator that facilitates the integration of Indonesian
shipping carriers with Odoo. Once integrated, users can select shipping carriers on inventory
operations in their Odoo database.

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`Automatically calculate shipping <../setup_configuration>`
   - :doc:`Integrate other third-party couriers <third_party_shipper>`

Setup in Biteship
=================

Create an account and complete profile
--------------------------------------

To get started, go to `Biteship's platform <https://dashboard.biteship.com/>`_ to configure the account
and generate the connector credentials. Log in with the Biteship account, or create a new one if
needed.

Profile configuration
---------------------

Once logged into the Biteship account, navigate to :menuselection:`Settings`,
and complete the profile information and verification.

.. image:: biteship_shipping/biteship-settings.png

>    :align: center

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We no longer use center-align for images, so I'll be removing these throughout :)

   :alt: Complete profile in Biteship settings.

Payment method configuration
----------------------------

> To configure payment methods, navigate to :menuselection:`Balance`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure payment methods, open the :menuselection:`Balance` page.
```

There are two payment options available:

- **Prepaid - Top Up Bitepoints**: Add funds to the wallet for daily transactions.
- **Postpaid - Monthly Invoicing**: For monthly billing, complete and sign the the Monthly Payment Activation form. The following documents are required:

   - Company Tax ID (NPWP)
   - Business License (SIUP) or Business Identification Number (NIB)
   - Company Deed

.. image:: biteship_shipping/biteship-balance.png
   :align: center
   :alt: See balance in Biteship.

.. _inventory/shipping_receiving/bite-api-key:

Biteship API Key
----------------

> In the Biteship account, navigate to :menuselection:`Integration` and find :guilabel:`API Keys` then select :guilabel:`Settings`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Biteship account, navigate to :menuselection:`Integration`. Under :guilabel:`API Keys`, click
:guilabel:`Settings`.
```

.. image:: biteship_shipping/biteship-integration.png

>    :align: center

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

   :alt: API Key settings in Biteship.

After clicking :guilabel:`Settings`, the page redirects to the :guilabel:`API Key` configuration page which
displays a list of created API Keys and the API Logs.

To create an API Key, click :guilabel:`Add API Key`. A prompt will appear to enter the name of the key.
The API Key will then be automatically generated and will be shown only once. Make sure to copy and keep it safe.

.. image:: biteship_shipping/biteship-api-key.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Add API Key in Biteship.

.. important::
   Save the API Key and keep it safe as it cannot be accessed after this stage.

.. note::
   The Order API will not be active yet. An activation request must be submitted to activate it.

.. _inventory/shipping_receiving/bite-api-key-test:

Key for Testing
---------------

For testing purposes, make sure to activate the :guilabel:`Testing Mode` toggle in the sidebar first. Instructions for creating

> testing API Key is the same for the production version.

Reviewer: Do they need to disable testing mode before proceeding to the next step? If so, add those instructions here.

.. image:: biteship_shipping/biteship-test-mode.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enter testing mode in Biteship.

.. _inventory/shipping_receiving/bite-activation-api:

API Key Activation Request
--------------------------

To use the API Key in a production environment, an activation request must be submitted.

In the Biteship account, navigate to :menuselection:`Integration` and find :guilabel:`API Key` then select :guilabel:`Settings`.

> Next, select :guilabel:`Order API Activation`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Biteship account, navigate to :menuselection:`Integration`. Under :guilabel:`API Key`, click
:guilabel:`Settings`. The :guilabel:`API Keys` page opens. Click the :guilabel:`Order API
Activation` button.
```

.. image:: biteship_shipping/biteship-api-key.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Order API Activation in Biteship.

.. important::
   In order to properly fill the form, Biteship requires usage of the testing mode to create a test order and simulate multiple order statuses.

.. image:: biteship_shipping/biteship-activation.png

>    :align: center

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

   :alt: Order API Activation Form in Biteship.

Fill out the following form fields:
 - In :guilabel:`Select API Key`, choose the API Key to be activated.
 - In :guilabel:`Select Couriers to Activate`, select the courier(s) to acivate.
 - In :guilabel:`Delivered Order ID`, copy the test Order ID of status 'Delivered'.
 - In :guilabel:`Cancelled Order ID`, copy the test Order ID of status 'Cancelled'.
 - In :guilabel:`Please check if you have orders that include insurance`, the option can be checked to enable insurance for the delivery if desired.

>  - Once everything is filled, click the :guilabel:`Submit API Activation Data` button to submit the activation request. Once approved, a message will appear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - :guilabel:`Select API Key`: choose the API key to activate.
 - :guilabel:`Select Couriers to Activate`: select one or more couriers to activate.
 - :guilabel:`Delivered Order ID`: enter a test order ID with "delivered" status.
 - :guilabel:`Cancelled Order ID`: enter a test order ID with "cancelled" status.
 - :guilabel:`Please check if you have orders that include insurance`: optionally enable insurance
   for the delivery.

When the form is complete, click the :guilabel:`Submit API Activation Data` button to submit the
activation request. After the request is approved, a message appears.
```

What does the message say? Is it just a confirmation message? If so, can you just add the word "confirmation" before "message" here?

> Check the API Key status, the Order API should be active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the API key status. The order API should be active.
```

Setup in Odoo
=============

Install
-------

After the Biteship account is set up, integrate it with the Odoo database. To do that, go to
Odoo's :guilabel:`Apps` module, search for the :guilabel:`Biteship Shipping` module, and click
:guilabel:`Activate` to install it.

Configuration
-------------

> Create a delivery method by going to :menuselection:`Inventory --> Configuration --> Delivery --> Shipping Methods` and click :guilabel:`New`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a delivery method. Open :menuselection:`Inventory --> Configuration --> Delivery --> Shipping
Methods`, then click :guilabel:`New`.
```

Configure Biteship in Odoo by filling out the fields on the :guilabel:`Shipping Methods` form as
follows:

- :guilabel:`Shipping Method`: Name of shipping method e.g `Biteship JNE Reguler`.
- :guilabel:`Provider`: select :guilabel:`Biteship` from the drop-down menu.
- :guilabel:`Delivery Product`: assign or create the delivery product that will appear on the sales order line when the cost of shipping is computed.

In the :guilabel:`Biteship Configuration` tab, fill out these fields:

- :guilabel:`Biteship Live API Key`: enter the live :abbr:`API (Application Programming Interface)` key :ref:`obtained from Biteship <inventory/shipping_receiving/bite-api-key>`.
- :guilabel:`Biteship Test API Key`: enter the test :abbr:`API (Application Programming Interface)` key :ref:`obtained from Biteship <inventory/shipping_receiving/bite-api-key-test>`.
- :guilabel:`Enable Insurance`: this option can be checked to enable insurance for the delivery if desired. Make sure to also enable it when submitting the :ref:`Order API Activation <inventory/shipping_receiving/bite-activation-api>`.

> - :guilabel:`Default Package Type`: Set a default package type to include the weight of the empty package when automatically calculating shipping rates. If this is left empty, the weight of the product will be used instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Biteship Live API Key`: enter the live :abbr:`API (Application Programming Interface)`
  key :ref:`obtained from Biteship <inventory/shipping_receiving/bite-api-key>`.
- :guilabel:`Biteship Test API Key`: enter the test :abbr:`API (Application Programming Interface)`
  key :ref:`obtained from Biteship <inventory/shipping_receiving/bite-api-key-test>`.
- :guilabel:`Enable Insurance`: this option can be checked to enable insurance for the delivery if
  desired. Make sure to also enable it when submitting the :ref:`Order API Activation
  <inventory/shipping_receiving/bite-activation-api>`.
- :guilabel:`Default Package Type`: Set a default package type to include the weight of the empty
  package when automatically calculating shipping rates. If this is left empty, the weight of the
  product will be used instead.
```

Editing for line length

.. important::
   To set a default package type, the *Packages* feature **must** be enabled in :menuselection:`Inventory --> Configuration --> Settings`.

> - Manually :guilabel:`Save` the form by clicking the cloud icon next to the :guilabel:`Shipping / New` breadcrumbs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manually :guilabel:`Save` the form by clicking the :icon:`fa-cloud-upload` :guilabel:`(Save
manually)` icon icon next to the :guilabel:`Shipping / New` breadcrumbs.
```

To select a courier service, click the :guilabel:`Select from a list of available couriers` link at the :guilabel:`Biteship Configuration` tab.

Doing so opens the :guilabel:`Choose Biteship Shipping Service` pop-up window. In the
:guilabel:`Delivery Service` field, choose the desired shipping service for deliveries and from the drop-down menu.

> Finally, click :guilabel:`Confirm`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :guilabel:`Choose Biteship Shipping Service` box opens. In the :guilabel:`Delivery Service`
field, choose the desired shipping service for deliveries from the drop-down menu. Finally, click
:guilabel:`Confirm`.
```

> The chosen delivery service will populate in the :guilabel:`Courier Name` and :guilabel:`Biteship Service Name` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The chosen delivery service will populate in the :guilabel:`Courier Name` and :guilabel:`Biteship
Service Name` field.
```

.. example::
   Sample of a Biteship shipping product configured in Odoo:

   | :guilabel:`JNE Reguler`
   | :guilabel:`Courier Name`: `JNE`
   | :guilabel:`Biteship Service Name`: `Reguler`

.. image:: biteship_shipping/biteship-configuration.png

>    :align: center

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

   :alt: Example of shipping products configured in Odoo.

.. tip::
   Switch between the test and production environment by clicking the :guilabel:`Environment` smart button at the top of
   the shipping method form. Make sure to fill the test API Key beforehand.

Generate a label with Biteship
------------------------------

> When creating a quotation in Odoo, add the Biteship shipping method by clicking the :guilabel:`Add shipping` button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating a quotation in Odoo, add the Biteship shipping method by clicking the :guilabel:`Add
shipping` button.
```

> In the :guilabel:`Add a shipping method` pop-up window, select Biteship in the :guilabel:`Shipping Method` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the :guilabel:`Add a shipping method` box, select Biteship in the :guilabel:`Shipping Method`
field.
```

Calculate the shipping rate by clicking :guilabel:`Get rate`. Finally, click :guilabel:`Add` to include the cost of shipping

> to the sales order line, labeled as the *delivery product*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calculate the shipping rate by clicking :guilabel:`Get rate`. Finally, click :guilabel:`Add` to
add the cost of shipping to a sales order line, labeled as the *delivery product*.
```

.. note::

>    Automatically calculate shipping costs for Biteship in **both** Odoo *Sales* and *eCommerce* applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Automatically calculate shipping costs for Biteship in **both** Odoo *Sales* and *eCommerce*
   applications.
```

Then, :guilabel:`Validate` the delivery. Shipping label documents can be accessed by going to the the print menu.

.. image:: biteship_shipping/biteship-shipping.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Example of a shipped order in Odoo.

> Informations such as :guilabel:`Tracking Number`, :guilabel:`Waybill Number`: and the cost of shipping are generated in the chatter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Information such as :guilabel:`Tracking Number`, :guilabel:`Waybill Number`: and the cost of
shipping are generated in the chatter.
```

.. important::
   Package weight in Odoo is calculated by adding the weights of the products plus the empty package saved in the database.

>    Ensure the correct shipping option is selected, as the package weight is not automatically verified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Package weight in Odoo is calculated by adding the weights of the products plus the empty package
   saved in the database. Ensure the correct shipping option is selected, as the package weight is
   not automatically verified.
```
